I  will introduce you to what unit
testing is and why we needed. Unit
testing is where we test our code at a
unit or class level that is the test
all the public methods on a class.We do
this by providing the different types of
values or parameters and see if the
method behave as expected both positive
as well as the exception scenarios.
Let's consider a order processing
application where in we have the order
processor class with two methods in it.
One which creates an order and to test
this create order method will be passing
in different data inside the order
object and see if it returns the
integer order ID back as expected.
Similarly we have the second method
called cancel order which throws a
business exception if the order we are
trying to cancel is not already present.
To test this method will pass-in a invalid
order ID and will see if it throws the
expected exception back.In the
object-oriented world for the java ee
world will not put all our code in one
single order processor class, our
application is usually divided into
layers we're in one class depends on a
other class. So the order processor will
call into a order service which will host
the business logic which inturn can
call into a order data access object
which takes care of all the curd work
connecting to the database and all that.
Now to unit test the order processor
class will not be going all the way to
the service the DAO and then the database.
Then it will become a integration tes. The
unit test the order processor we will be
mocking out the order service.
Similarly, if we are unit testing the order
service will be mocking out the order
DAO and if you are unit testing the order
DAO we will be mocking out all
the JDBC APA calls or even the
hibernate calls depending on what you are
using for your database access.The idea is
that each layer is unit tested on its
own and it works as expected. Due to this
there are several advantages of unit
testing starting with great quality. When
we write unit tests  we will catch
defects right during development and the
number of defects that are caught during
the testing phase or even production
will go down improving the quality of
any product. Since we mock out all the
dependencies and test the unit or a
class on it own the test run very fast and
give instant feedback. This is because there
is no database call or webservice
call will be mocking out all those calls.
we can run these test right out of ids
like eclipse without any additional
setup. Last but not the least over time as
write these great unit tests they will
become a regression shoot that is if we
or someother developer is changing or
making a small change to a part of an
application or product we can update
the current unit test as well as you can run all the
unit test for the products to ensure
that he didn't break because of his
change in break another part of the
application. Junit is a easy way to
unit test or write unit tests and
mockito complemented complements it by
mocking out all the dependencies we need.
Will learn JUnit and mockito in the
first second half of this course.